---
layout: post
title: Where the Dome Failed, the Fifty-ton Colander Will Succeed, Says BP
---

*We've got this thing totally under control, claims CEO Tony Hayward*

At a press conference in London, BP executives and engineers unveiled their latest scheme to stop the largest ecological disaster in modern history: a massive, fifty ton colander.

"Okay, we'll admit, the dome and the tube were pretty bush league. But we've learned our lesson. For the last week, we locked a dozen of our brightest engineers in a room with nothing but their wits and a few boxes of pasta. The result is British ingenuity at its finest," said Jon Herston, BP's SVP of Risk Engineering.

When complete, the colander will have a seventy foot diameter and hundreds upon hundreds of one-foot-wide holes. BP's head of environmental security claims the colander's plastic will be manufactured using "the very same oil that's rushing into the Gulf of Mexico at 50,000 barrels a day. We're going 100% carbon neutral to clean up this massive, unmitigated oil spill."

BP was unclear on the physical principles that would enable the gigantic colander to succeed where other attempts have failed. "It's extraordinarily advanced liquid dynamics," claimed Herston. "A colander behaves very differently under 5,000 feet of seawater. Have you considered how difficult it is to strain Tagliatelle at 200 atmospheres of deep water pressure? Just about as difficult to strain oil--which is what we're counting on."

Despite the confidence of BP's executives, longtime critics of BP remain skeptical. "I see holes in their logic," chuckled Greenpeace spokesperson Meadow Rainbow. She added, "Seriously though, there are also a ton of holes in that giant f*#@ing colander."
