---
layout: post
title: Facebook Should Acquire Waze Because Everyone Wants a Fucking Maps Product By Facebook
---

*An Op-Ed by Everyone's Common Sense*

Facebook HQ, Menlo Park, CA -- You know how I found out Facebook was located in Menlo Park? I'll give you a hint: I didn't go to fucking Facebook. Nor did I "Bing The Maps," (is that the proper vernacular?) use Mapquest, check the yellow pages or--god forbid--open Apple Maps.

Like any aggregate pile of humanity's collective common sense, I went to Google Maps. Because Google, being a god damned SEARCH engine, can FIND things. 

(Sidenote: No, Microsoft employees, Bing is not a search engine. Technically speaking it's an Emergent Game-Theoretic Inevitability...but they would have you believe it's a "decision engine." Which is true, in that immediately after using Bing you "decide" to use Google. But I digress.)

Riddle me this, batman: when do you go on Facebook? When me, your oft-ignored common fucking sense, is not around. When your complete lack of focus on productive, self-actualizing things descends into self-wallowing melancholy, and you think "fuck it, I want to see everyone's vacation pictures. Oh, look, my ex had another baby and everyone's so happy."

Jesus. Fucking. Christ.

Let me hit you with some real talk: you don't go to Facebook to FIND anything. Facebook is where you get LOST, motherfucker. Facebook is a god damned black hole, generated by the sheer mass of Human Vanity collapsing into an emotional singularity. Even your LCD's self-reflected light cannot escape the sad blue gravity of this infinitely dense prison. Do you get what I'm saying, Chandrasekhar?

Let me spell it out for you. Facebook Maps is not your friend. Facebok Maps is your enemy. Facebook Maps will require you to "like" a Starbucks fan page before directing you to one. Facebook Maps won't locate your friends without an irrelevant local offer being shoved down your throat, probably for Starbucks. Facebook Maps would give Sisyphus directions to a sleezy, forcibly "social" remake of Asteroids instead of the nearest boulder. If Facebook Maps was an ice cream flavor, it would be pralines and dick. Upon making that reference it would automatically post "Wayne's World" as one of your favorite movies without your permission.

For fucks' sake, are you on Facebook right now? God dammit.

(This op-ed was a joint venture of your common sense and Google+'s growing sense of inadequacy)

{% include tbtc.html %}
