---
layout: post
title: Stephen Wolfram Unveils Utterly New, Insanely Ambitious 12" Diamond-Encrusted Cock
---

*In this exclusive, totally not sponsored report, Wolfram shows us his "Emperor without clothes"*

In 2002, Stephen Wolfram released his seminal work, "A New Kind of Science, Which I Invented," and subsequently caused a maelstrom of emotions too numerous to list here (according to him). Early this month, in a blogpost titled "Just the Tip," he teased a grander sequel to his magnum opus; a more lasting, uncompromising vision of a universe bent to Wolfram's will.

Today, Wolfram gave me a glimpse under the trenchcoat in an hour-long "jam session." And I have to say, what I saw---and felt---was amazing.

Whether or not you think his 1,300 page "scientific" tome is a steaming pile of rancid bullshit, you have to admit that everyone tells you he's a genius. Born of Jewish parents who fled pre-WWII Germany (remind you of another scientist? Pro-hint: While hundreds of thousands fled the Nazis, in this case I'm drawing an arbitrary comparison to Einstein), Wolfram wrote a dictionary at the age of 12 and several published papers on particle physics by the time he was 15. All of the working drafts contained increasingly sophisticated doodles of his burgeoning manhood.

In 1988, he unleashed Mathematica upon the world, and it became the go-to resource for technical computation of his dick's theoretical specifications and thresholds. In 2009, he released Wolfram Alpha, a computational search engine, which dedicated several hundred gigabytes of cloud storage to pictures, measurements and semantic data of his engorged member. His new project, he contends, is the natural next step of his work.

"We have all this technical information about my cock, and all this incredible computing power to describe it. But what if the cock itself could be better? That's what Wolfram Horn is about."

Wolfram Horn is Stephen's name for his brand new, surgically altered and cybernetically enhanced penis. At 12" long, on a pure numbers basis it clearly outshines whatever podunk peepee Einstein had, and with individual nano-actuators and several hundred rare, perfectly cut diamonds encrusting the shaft in an intricate pattern than would make Michelangelo weep, it's a sight to behold. And as you can imagine, only one word can describe how it feels: amazing.

Simply put, this is the cock that will mount the world. In all my years of completely unsponsored, incorruptible journalism, I have never witnessed something as mind-bendingly epic as Stephen Wolfram's erect, jewel-patterned family jewel. Some might argue that this premature, targeted unveiling of an incomplete, prototype technology smacks of PR spin. Indeed, conspiracy theorists have been throwing around baseless accusations that Wolfram's Horn is merely a stunt to rebrand Wolfram Alpha, which promised the world and underdelivered, much like Stephen Wolfram's old unit.

But that's nonsense. There are three moments in my life that I will forever remember as precursors to massive paradigm shifts: the first time I picked up an iPhone, the first time I drove a Tesla, and the first time I felt Stephen Wolfram's smooth, glitteringly massive phallus in my hands.

Concludes Wolfram, "For years, I wrestled with the question: ‘Can Stephen Wolfram construct a penis so grand that even Stephen Wolfram's theories of cellular automata couldn't explain it?' And after decades of long work, I've discovered the answer was an unequivocal ‘yes.' And it will change everything."
