---
layout: post
title: "\"Honestly, I\'m not really sure Imma gonna win,\" admits Mario"
---

*Nintendo profits depressed under the weight of novelty and unmet promises*

"Why buy the cow when you can milk an Animal Crossing sequel for free?" once posited Nintendo of America President Reggie Fils-Aime. A golden quote from Nintendo's Golden Era. Today, it seems the milk has spoilt in its glass bottle, the Golden Land has been corrupted into Darkness, and consumers refuse to suckle on Reggie's cow-teat. In a random survey conducted amongst hardcore gamers, 89% no longer identify with Nintendo and find the mental imagery of a chimeric Fils-Aime-bovine-tit unsettling.

Besides poor metaphors, what's gone wrong for Nintendo? We asked a collection of experts who've spent their lives fiddling with Wiis in their basements. After some initial confusion, we clarified that we were referring to their expertise with Nintendo. A few conversations later, a common theme emerged: these guys were sick of relentlessly beating nostalgic, dead Epona for shits and giggles. While one of them was alluding to masturbation, the rest were genuinely upset that Nintendo's games seem like staid rehashes of old franchises with silly novelties attached. Like Ocarina of Time in 3d, or Mario...in space.

One need only look at Nintendo's upcoming launches to realize these chronic one-eyed Charmander-strokers have a point.

* Super Mario Land 3d: Collect Coins for Mario's Retirement Fund
* Metroid Prime 4: 4th Derivative FPS
* Super Smash Brothers: We Swear We're Not Changing Anything
* Pokemon Ultraviolet Spectrum: They're All Procedurally Generated
* New! Cooking Mama, A Japanese Gender Stereotype Adventure
* Legend of Zelda: How About We Just Fish For a While? 

Is there any hope for Nintendo? Corporate restructuring experts claim that if Nintendo sheds its hardware business and focuses purely on games, it could thrive like Sega. So strictly speaking, and in this article's fine tradition of poor metaphors, Nintendo has a Metroid's chance on Zebes.

(No metaphorical dead horses were beaten to produce this article, unless you're using that as a euphemism)

{% include tbtc.html %}
