---
layout: post
title: Technologically Aloof 3M CEO Berates Marketing SVP for Lackluster Grindr Presence
---

*"If we don't execute on our ‘Post-It Everywhere' strategy, how will we win?" posits CEO*

St. Paul, MN---After a grueling, two-day-long marketing strategy overview, 3M CEO Inge Thulin had one question for SVP of Marketing Ian Hardgrove: "Where are we on Grindr?" Like any expert in marketing communication missing critical information, Mr. Hardgrove struck a soft balance between apologetic and enthusiastic. "Honestly, I'm sorry to say, it's not part of our social media portfolio, but I've got top analysts with their ears to the ground, waiting for the right time to penetrate this new, fast-growing vertical," Hardgrove replied confidently, while every aide in the room under the age of thirty breathlessly held back shock.

Thulin stared down his top marketing lieutenant and spoke, in complete seriousness, without the faintest notion of Grindr's purpose: "You better get a team on this. I want them running a train on this communication vertical. 3M cannot remain last place in cutting-edge marketing, forced to beat off competitors with a stick." One of the younger, more fashionably dressed male aides let out an audible guffaw and had to excuse himself from the conference room before passing out from laughter.

After the meeting, 3M's SVP did what any out-of-touch baby boomer executive would do. In lieu of a rudimentary Google search to independently verify that Grindr and 3M have very little potential synergy, he outsourced his analysis to the Boston Consulting Group. $400,000 in consulting fees later, the Boston Consulting Group laid out an ingenious rollout strategy (entitled "3M: Getting Sticky with Grindr") alongside a beautifully executed 74-slide Powerpoint that conspicuously failed to mention exactly what Grindr does. Fees were higher than expected, owing to the high percentage of 20-something analysts that couldn't work on the project, citing "religious reasons."

Thulin seemed satisfied after watching his SVP's outsourced presentation, particularly grateful that he happened to glance the Grindr icon on his teenage son's iPhone, which led to his initial inquiry. But he had one more nagging question for his SVP.

"Where are we on XHamster?"
