---
layout: post
title: If The Opposition Can't Be Heard, Do They Actually Oppose You? An Inquiry by Vladimir Putin.
---

*How zen koans help me reduce my blood pressure and enhance Russian power projection*

Hello comrades! Uncle Vlad here. As you may have noticed, I've been trying to rebalance Eurasian spheres of influence, and let me tell you, I've been having a hell of a time. Threatening to embroil the world in unmitigated conflict and pulling the puppet strings on regionally disadvantaged states mentally exhausts me!

That's why I've started meditating, and boy has it helped! My schedule is absolutely nuts, but I try to squeeze in about 15 minutes in between my morning Turkish coffee and my regular chess games with President Obama. (all these weeks and he still hasn't made a move, the joker!) In order to get my scatterbrain into an empty state, I usually employ some zen riddles, and most recently one has got me thinking. "If a tree falls in the forest, but no one is there to hear it, does it make a sound?"

I'd ask you what you think, but let's be honest here, I'm not really one to listen to other people. Which is what led me to the stunning realization: if my opposition cannot be heard, who's to say they're really the opposition at all? I know, I know; stop being so silly Uncle Vlad! "Why are you thinking epistemologically in the middle of a potential war scenario that you yourself are trying to create?" you're probably asking. If I actually listened to your questions, I'd say that was a fair point. But I don't, which is the same as not hearing the question in the first place, don't you think? No, don't answer that, I don't care.

I do, however, care about what my good friend Bashir thinks. He has an eye for insights, let me tell you. And he completely agrees with me; just look at Syria! Lots of trees falling there, but you don't hear about it, do you? ;)

So I guess what I'm trying to say is that this is probably the last thing you'll read on the "Internet" if you're in "Greater Russia." Don't worry comrades! I'll turn it back on when the time is right. You can count on Uncle Vlad!
