---
layout: post
title: Bitcoin 101---A Detailed but Non-Technical Intro 
---

As a departure from my normal satire, here's an introduction to bitcoin that I presented for Ashoka, a nonprofit.

If you don't want to watch the video---considering it lasts over an hour, I don't blame you---I have attached my prepared remarks below.

---
<div class="videowrapper">
<iframe src="//www.youtube.com/embed/MLTHrCPQQbQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

First, just wanted to thank Erik, and Ashoka, for inviting me to speak. I sincerely hope this exposes you to some exciting ideas in technology that may serve to benefit your future work as social entrepreneurs.

So let's get to it! Like all of you, I've seen a whole bunch of TED talks, and consequently I've learned that in order to maintain audience engagement, one can never hyperbolize early enough. So here's my insane, hyped-up quote of the day:

*Bitcoin is the single greatest technological innovation since the World Wide Web* -A bunch of VCs incentivized to say this, and me

My goal in this presentation is to convince you that this is true, and to offer some reasons why this particular brand of technological innovation could transform the developing world.

But who am I to make such a claim?

##Who am I?

Well, clearly, whoever I am, I'm biased.

* Early adopter for tech, beta enthusiast in all things (in bitcoin's case, followed it for 4 years, built projects incorporating it since then)
* I'm a technolgist: I've spent most of my life/career working on technology (did tech product management for Washington Post Labs, co-founded Android app startup, went to Stanford's business school to pursue tech entrepreneurship)
* Love open source (e.g., did my '07 undergrad thesis on Wikipedia, I love linux, and I post a variety of writing online, all of which is licensed under Creative Commons)
* Basically I'm a massive nerd, but not in the "LOLs check out my Tumblog of thick-rimmed glasses" kind-of-way.

##What I am not:

Full disclosure time.

* I am not an expert in the developing world. (To reinforce this point, I even wrote tech satire lampooning silly technologists who think they are...it's good to be a little self-aware)
* But I have spent my career---and most of my life---analyzing new opportunities, especially outlandish and/or seemingly counterintuitive ones. And I think cryptocurrency---in general, and in the developing world---is an absolutely tremendous opportunity. Perhaps one of the biggest opportunities to do large-scale good in the 21st century.

##Presentation Outline

With that out of the way, and y'all suitably hyperbolized to keep you awake, here's a little road map for this presentation. I'm going to focus more on bitcoin than the developing world, as per my expertise, but I'm hoping your pointed questions and insights will help fill in the gaps there.

###Bitcoin: A Primer 
First, I'll dive into what bitcoin actually is, and hopefully dispel some misconceptions along the way.

###Bitcoin's Advantages (For Us, and the Developing World)
Once you have a strong basis for understanding the technology behind bitcoin, I'll dive into why it's so damn awesome---and how the developing world can benefit from it.

###A Pragmatic Conclusion: The Challenges
And finally, I'll qualify my enthusiasm and end on a sober note.

###Q & A
After that, if there's any time, we'll have some Q&A for any lingering questions.

##Bitcoin: A Primer 

###First, Some Historical Context

Before we dive into bitcoin, let's cover some (loose) financial history to provide some context. Let's take our imaginary mental time machines and travel back to medieval Venice. There's gondolas, masks, canals; you're loving it. Let's exercise that imaginary power a little more. You're the ruler of the Venetian city-state; the Doge of Venice, and you're thinking to yourself, "Doge, I have such wealth. Much gold. Wow. But I don't want to lug around all this gold to purchase my mercenaries' services or my new estate."

Now the reason you transact in gold is because it satisfies a number of properties that make it a great store of value:

* It's divisible (to a point).
* It's scarce.
* It's hard to fake/relatively easy to detect fakes.
* It's shiny! (Okay this one is less important)

For much of the ancient world, gold became currency---and a store of value---for exactly these properties. But oy! The weight of it all. And the physical security issues are insane---someone could rob you of your gold quite easily.

Luckily for you, your friend Mercutio specializes in storing gold, and you trust Mercutio innately, especially since he started using double-bookkeeping accounting, another Venetian competitive advantage. And lots of other Venetians trust Mercutio, so they all decide to store their gold there. Now if you give anyone a note that says "redeem 10 bars of gold at Mercutio's," they'll be happy to take that in lieu of physical gold.

Congratulations, we have just metaphorically created the modern financial system, except "gold" has been replaced by "the full faith in a sovereign government to pay back its debts" and "Mercutio's" has been replaced by a labyrinthine system of multinational banks. 

There's a lot to like about this system. Alongside capitalism and Rule of Law, it pulled billions out of poverty and has led to an exponential technological progress curve. This is a Good Thing(tm).

But to re-appropriate that oft-used Winston Churchill quote, "Our financial system is the worst, except for all others that came before it." Let's go back to our good friend Mercutio. He has the trust of an entire city-state, but what if he arbitrarily decides to abuse our trust? Or---in a more likely scenario---unknowingly engages in poor investments? What if Mercutio uses our gold to buy some "totally legit" bundles of Danish mortgages that his friend Horatio sells him for a so-called "guaranteed return?"

If only Mercutio hadn't trusted his 15th-Century Venetian Excel model! If only he knew that something was rotten in the state of Denmark! But alas, he didn't, and we---the Doge of Venice and his other customers---wind up losing our precious gold after his investment goes south.

Congratulations, we have effectively recreated a simple version of the 2008 financial crisis. I won't go in too much detail here, because we've all seen countless treatises on the subject, but it's pretty easy to see how the crisis caused some pretty epic moral hazard issues while shedding light on systemic problems in our financial system. The system is based on trust, and when that trust fails, really bad things happen.

##Enter Bitcoin

Bitcoin, as you can probably guess, was basically a direct response to this crisis, and is a fundamental re-imagining of how finance, banking, and money can work in an Internet-connected age. (As an aside, bitcoin has more political baggage than a Republican VP nominee, but I don't mean to intentionally support a particular political world-view. I'm a progressive, semi-libertarian dude, but I'm much more interested in bitcoin's technical features than its underlying political message. Still, they're somewhat inextricably linked, so it's hard to talk about one without tacitly involving the other).

So, let's finally talk about bitcoin. Bitcoin is actually predicated on two very simple ideas:

1. Trusting third parties leads to abuse, a la Mercutio's rotten real estate investment. What if we didn't have to trust anyone? Bitcoin says "Trust No One," a la the X-Files. 
2. Mercutio's value wasn't actually in physically storing gold. That was a bit of a reddish-gold herring. It was his accounting ledger! The fact that he said "the Doge sent 10 bars of gold to whomever," and that we believed him. Bitcoin says "Let's make a reliable, canonical, open ledger, with units of account that have similar properties to gold."

Obviously the idea of "trusting no one" and "give me a single, global accounting ledger that I can trust" seem rather...at odds with each other. And therein lies the amazing technological miracle of bitcoin. It takes these ideas as its basis, combines some super-clever cryptographic tricks and smart incentives, and like magic...it reconciles them. 

##But How Does Bitcoin Work?

Unfortunately, the technology is not quite as trivial to explain within a limited time frame, especially when trying to keep it as non-technical as possible. That said, this should provide you with a nice overview, but if you're curious---or in the spirit of bitcoin, if you don't trust me, which I have conflicted feelings about---I'll send y'all some awesome explanatory links afterward if you really want to get your hands dirty. 

Let's start at the most granular level. Let's say Erik gave me some beer, and I want to send him some money for it. This is the canonical "drugs for bitcoin" example that the media loves. If I were to write him a check, the entire process would require both of our bank account numbers, a rather alarming amount of personal information to set up bank accounts in the first place, and several days. And since neither Erik and I are licensed alcohol proprietors, ATF would probably get involved pretty quickly.

In the bitcoin universe, it's considerably less involved...although it does take longer to explain. Instead of signing up for bank accounts, Erik and I both have "wallet software," which can be open source, and most assuredly do not require a driver's license or social security number. This software allows us to generate a practically-limitless number of public address/private key pairs, each of which basically function as individual bank accounts.

This is the part of the presentation where I start to lose you, if I haven't already. "Public address/private key pairs? What?" Bear with me for a moment. A public address is like the address to your house. Anyone can see it, and while they might not know who lives there, they can send items of value to it through a delivery service, and they can even peek into the windows and see what's inside. A private key is like the actual, physical key that opens your house. Whoever holds the actual key gains access to the house and its valuable contents---and can chose to send the contents to another house, if they so chose.

That's a reasonable metaphor for public addresses and private keys in the bitcoin universe. What's neat is that---unlike physical houses---they're light-weight cryptographic constructs, which means any user can generate a near-limitless number of them, and the probability of generating the same pair is so tiny it will likely never occur in the lifetime of the Universe (or at least as long as we're around).

So what's actually happening when I "send" bitcoin to Erik? In reality, it's not so much "sending" as it is "re-assinging" bitcoin. Effectively, I'm taking my bitcoin and "assigning it" to a public address that Erik controls. I do this by "signing" the transaction with my private key---this is part of bitcoin's cryptographic magic. What's cool here is that anyone who sees this transaction can be absolutely certain that I authorized it---"signing it" shows everyone in a mathematically certain way that I control the private key to a public address, and that I sent it to Erik's public address---but in the process, doesn't reveal my private key! This is done through what are called "one-way functions," and there's an entire cryptographic rabbit hole here that I'm just going to avoid, but can send some links to help you understand it if you're interested.

What I just described isn't that novel---cryptographic signing between two parties has existed for quite some time; for example, it's how OpenGPG email encryption works---which is hte same tech Edward Snowden used to securely communicate with journalists. But now here's where bitcoin gets mind-blowing.

## Bitcoin's Blockchain: A "Whoa" Moment

This transaction that I sign---that everyone can tell is authorized by me, without revealing my private key, remember---I don't send it just to Erik. I send it out to the entire bitcoin network. It propagates onto other bitcoin nodes remarkably quickly, and soon the entire network sees your transaction.

But why do I send it to everyone, instead of just Erik? Is your mind still ready to get blown? It's because everybody in the network---everybody!---has a copy of EVERY TRANSACTION that ever occurred in the network. It's just a giant list of transfers from one public address to the next---but they can all be verified by the network WITHOUT anyone revealing their private key.

Anyone can go download bitcoin wallet software and have the whole ledger on their computer (right now it's about 25 gigabytes). This ledger is called the "Blockchain," because every group of transactions that's added to it is called a "block." (more on this in a minute)

This is in stark contrast to the old "Mercutio-as-bank-model." Instead of a few "trusted parties" having their own proprietary ledgers, everybody has the same, global, open ledger. In the old banking world, you'd have to guard your account number and identity pretty carefully; at best, an open, global ledger would have been a dangerous proposition. But in bitcoin-land, because of public-private key cryptography, one never needs to reveal their identity with their public key, and even if they did, no one would be able to move their bitcoin---unless they authorized it with their private key. Which makes an open ledger a fantastic idea.

There's only one last piece to this puzzle, and it's a bit of a doozy, which is why I saved it for last. So, an astute listener is probably wondering, "Where does the 'bitcoin' amount in these public addresses actually come from? It sounds like it's just a number in a ledger, so why can't you just put in whatever number you want? That doesn't sound like something that's scarce or difficult to fake."

## The Bitcoin Miners

Remember how I said the "Blockchain"---the global ledger---is just a giant list of bitcoin reassignments from public address to public address? After some inductive reasoning, one quickly starts to wonder where the "bitcoin amount" comes from at the very beginning of that long chain of public address transfers. That "original" bitcoin comes from the process of "mining."

"Mining" is a bit of a misnomer---a better phrase would be "incentiviced securing of the network," but that's bit of a mouthful. Let's go back to all of those nodes on the network with their own copies of the Blockchain. While they're collecting transactions that are broadcast all over the network, they're also searching for a solution to a cryptographic puzzle. If they find a solution, they broadcast an answer to every other node on the network, and the other nodes can easily verify that the answer is valid, without doing the hard work of finding the solution themselves (this is the magic of "one-way functions" again). Included in that answer is all of the transactions they received from other nodes---and thus, a "block" is added to the chain, and the nodes all start working on the next puzzle while listening to new transactions. So in the bitcoin network, the miners are the ones who are actually adding "pages" to the "global ledger." But we say they're adding "blocks" to the "Blockchain."

Finding this answer also requires a lot of computer work---hardware and electricity. Consequently, everyone on the network has agreed to certain rules about rewards, and when a miner solves this puzzle, it's awarded some units of account (right now the amount is 25 BTC, but it diminishes exponentially over time, which makes bitcoin naturally deflationary). Additionally, they are also awarded all the transaction fees within that block (these are typically very small for users). What's really neat is that the difficulty of this cryptographic puzzle is adjusted automatically, based on the mining power in the network---basically, the more mining power that exists in the network, the harder the puzzle becomes, and vice-versa. This improves security dynamically...the more miners there are, the more secure the bitcoin network is, and the harder it is to mount an attack. 

But why does "more miners"="more security?" Well, the reasons are a bit...complicated. The easiest way to conceptualize it is that lots of other people in the network are competing with each other to find the right answer to this cryptographic puzzle, and the puzzle itself is fundamentally connected to the transactions being broadcast and the rest of the preexisting Blockchain. In other words, if you attempt to alter the transactions in the Blockchain, it will alter the answer to the puzzle. And so people working on the "correct/honest" puzzle won't accept your answer and won't propagate your faked Blockchain. The TL;DR version: as long as someone doesn't control over 50% of the "mining power," it will always take exponentially more work to fool the network into believing your fake Blockchain is the right one. And even if they could, there are strong incentives not to propagate a fake Blockchain (the value of mining an honest network would probably be greater than running a dishonest network). The competitive---and highly incentivized---nature of mining is part and parcel to the "trust no one" and "decentralized" ethos in bitcoin.

Even if you don't get how "bitcoin mining" works---and I'll admit, it's a damn hard concept to explain without diving into the nuts and bolts of bitcoin---you can still appreciate the elegance of the incentive structure. Bitcoin miners generate bitcoin---a cryptographically guaranteed scarce unit of account---by securing the network. The more miners there are, the more secure the network, but they only mine if it's profitable for them to do so---this creates a natural equilibrium between the security of the network and the overall market value of bitcoin generated within it. This also leads to complete awareness on the total amount of bitcoin on the network---there's definitive information on how many bitcoin will ever be mined (that number is 21,000,000 BTC, in case you're interested, and yes, each 1 BTC is subdivisible by 10^-8).

And there you have it. Bitcoin the protocol is just a massive, globally shared ledger that anyone can view, combined with some pretty neat cryptographic tricks to ensure scarcity and security. Okay, so that's probably enough mind-blowing for the day. There's a lot more I could talk about when it comes to the structure/technology of bitcoin, and I will mention a few other things in passing, but I think you have enough of a basis to understand bitcoin's huge potential advantages. 

## Bitcoin's Advantages (For Us and the Developing World)

So this all sounds cool, but why would anyone choose to transact in bitcoin? Especially in the developing world? Some of these advantages are probably self-evident from my description of the protocol...but let's dive in. First, let's talk about the broad, abstract advantages to bitcoin:

###It's the most radically transparent, open financial system in existence.
The ledger---the Blockchain, that is---is completely OPEN and has been downloaded by hundreds of thousands of computers, all of which are constantly updating it with new transactions. No other system comes even close. Yes, there are some caveats here---there are what's called "off-chain" transactions that aren't necessarily tracked by the Blockchain, but those services can serve to benefit users who can't run full nodes or don't trust their own security. But even considering those services, bitcoin is incredibly transparent compared to the opaqueness of every other financial system---particularly those in repressive or developing regimes. And all the code behind the protocol is completely open source. It's absolutely remarkable.

###...and yet, despite that openness, can preserve anonymity if required.
If you're careful, you can preserve a great deal of anonymity, even when engaging in online transactions (thanks to one's ability to generate new public addresses on the fly). This is generally viewed as a "mixed bag" by lots of folks, but I'm more of an optimist. Yes, in the case of the Silk Road and a variety of other places it streamlined the purchase of illegal goods...but then again, so does cash. This is something that can be used for "good" as well as "evil." What if you needed to fund a journalist in a repressive regime that has a thriving bitcoin-based black market? What if you wanted to donate to a cause that an authoritarian government doesn't like? Or what if you wanted to pay a government official without their corrupt boss taking a cut/knowing about it? Pseudonymity can be a powerful force for good.

###Takes fiscal power away from governments/banks and puts it into math, computers, and open source code.
This is less advantageous in the developed world, where we have stable governments and Rule of Law. But even so, there are advantages here for us US-based folks, and huge advantages for places with corrupt governments and shaky institutions.

Now I'm not as sharp on theories of development, but I'm familiar with the concept of "chicken-or-egg" problems when it comes to the developing world. Citizens need good institutions and Rule of Law in order to have a thriving economic system, but seemingly, the reverse is also true. Properly applied, bitcoin is like the Konami code---that's a cheat code, to all you youngsters who never played the original Nintendo---for places without the laws or institutions in place to support reasonable fiscal policy. It's not without it's challenges, but I'd argue they're far more surmountable than, say, the challenges of the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe.

###Creates massive opportunities for "money-as-an-API."
I'm most excited about this one. Bitcoin was designed to work electronically---it can't exist without computers. Consequently, working with bitcoin means it can be manipulated like lots of other data online---that is, programmatically. Something I didn't touch on in my bitcoin overview: there's an entire scripting language built into the protocol that allows you do some pretty cool things. You can create escrow accounts without using a bank for example, or create companies that programmatically distribute dividends, or associate bitcoins with physical property ownership (this concept is called "colored coins"), or even create decentralized versions of Kiva or Kickstarter. And that's only the stuff we can think of today! Unlike regular money, which has always been a closed system with very limited opportunity for experimentation, the protocol is wide-open and open to tinkering (which has actually led to a proliferation of bitcoin alternatives, including dogecoin, my personal favorite---this is open competition, which is another Good Thing(tm)).

This point cannot be emphasized enough. What gets me excited about technology---in addition to the opportunity to inject Internet memes into serious presentations---is that occasionally an idea comes around that creates an entirely new, completely unforeseen platform. It happened with DOS, then Windows, then the World Wide Web, then the iPhone/smartphone. It never happened with money, until now. Bitcoin excites me not just because of what it is today. It excites me for the platform it could BECOME---for the as yet undreamed ideas that will be built on top of it.

Okay, I'm going to dial back the techno-utopianism for a moment and get back down to brass tacks. Those abstract advantages aside, let's talk about the more practical advantages to bitcoin today.

###Provides electronic banking services at significantly lower cost (free/very cheap transaction costs!) and without a bank
On any Android phone today, you can download an open source bitcoin wallet that runs locally and can store your private keys directly on your phone. You can transfer large sums of money without using a bank as an intermediary. This is not a big deal in the Western world, but a huge deal in the developing world. There's absolutely an opportunity to develop a mobile web or SMS-based bitcoin bank as well; it's already happening in Kenya, where a company has developed a bitcoin wallet that's compatible with mPesa. Another company, 37coins, has developed a complete SMS-based bitcoin service. With the proliferation of low-cost Android phones (like the Moto E, which retails for less than a $100 in India), within a few years, it's highly likely that the developing world will have nearly identical smartphone experiences to those enjoyed in the developed world.

Worldwide "smartphone parity" will present some phenomenal opportunities in the developing world, but the biggest---in my mind---is what it could do for the underbanked. Kenya's mPesa showed the power of using localized technology to revolutionize electronic banking, and bitcoin presents a similar---but world-wide!---opportunity once everyone has a smartphone.

###Even in places with banks, bitcoin can cater to those who don't have the credit to open an account, or as a buffer to predatory banking practices
Just to expound on the "underbanked" point for a moment: it takes a special kind of rationalized insanity to appreciate that in the US, it costs more to bank when you have less money. The amount of fees that are levied against lower-income banking clients makes my blood boil. It's absurd. Patently absurd. Thankfully, bitcoin is agnostic to the amount of money you have or your credit rating. You download a wallet or sign up for a web-based wallet and BOOM, you can instantly accept/store electronic money. This is an especially big deal for people who can't get a credit card to shop online, and---with "worldwide smartphone parity" imminent---opens up a huge swath of services and opportunities for them.

###One currency, one love y'all
Bitcoin has no borders. Yes, you need local infrastructure to support it, like currency exchanges and merchant POS systems and the like, but bitcoin has no restrictions based on nationality (at least technologically...the regulatory environment is a completely other matter). My bitcoins are as good here as they are in Botswana, or Kenya, or Japan, or the UK. With bitcoin, I can send money to anywhere in the world without having to jump through dozens of hoops, which certainly has special application to your line of work. Where there is Internet, there can be bitcoin. 

###Transactions are significantly less expensive than credit cards and definitely less expensive than money wire
Let's do another thought experiment. Let's say you're Visa, or Mastercard. You transfer $10 from one client to another. You charge them $0.30 for the privilege. For another transaction, you transfer $10,000 from one client to another. You charge them $300 for the privilege. Or, on the most extreme end, you're Western Union, and you're transferring $10,000 and charging someone $1,200 to do so.

You are literally taking one row in a spreadsheet and transferring it to another row. Your cost is tiny and fixed. You're charging everyone a percentage for this.

Please excuse my language for a moment, but that's bullshit. That kind of excess profit should not exist in any functional, competitive "free-market" economy, but it does.

Bitcoin transaction fees work differently---they're actually in the process of being updated to be more fluid depending on confirmation priority within the Blockchain, but the short answer (for once in this presentation) is that they're going to be cheaper. A lot cheaper. I once saw someone transfer the equivalent of nearly $150,000,000 in bitcoin's Blockchain. It cost them...wait for it...$0. Now they could have made it $1 to ensure faster confirmation, but that wasn't necessary. This is absolutely the way it should be, and banks, credit card companies, and the like, should be ashamed of themselves for perpetuating these exorbitant fees.

## A Pragmatic Conclusion: The Challenges

Now, if all of what I said about bitcoin was self-evidently true, surely at this point bitcoin would have taken over the world, we'd all be riding solar-powered unicorns to work, and all world hunger would have been sated by the discovery of rapidly-grown edible rainbows.

None of this has happened, although I'm still holding out hope for the edible rainbows. Bitcoin has had remarkable growth in its 5 years of existence---going from nothing to an $8 billion ecosystem is no small feat. But tons of challenges remain---some technological, some economic, some regulatory, some cultural. And that's not even counting specific challenges to adoption in the developing world. I'm going to end on a more sober note here and list some of these challenges for you, but make no mistake: in spite of these issues, I'm still extremely excited about bitcoin, and I think you should be too.

###Technological challenges 
While I still think bitcoin is a technological miracle, there are known issues that currently prevent it from immediately becoming a worldwide currency. They mostly have to do with the amount of transactions the network can process per second, and maintaining reasonable size for the Blockchain. Most pressingly, the threat of a "51% attack"---of a single miner gaining full power over the network---has reared its head a few times, and it's been enough to cause some merited concern in the bitcoin community.

But I have faith that these issues will be resolved. There's a saying in the open source community: "with enough eyes, all bugs are shallow." And now that bitcoin is serious business, there are lots of very talented eyes looking into these issues---with very strong incentives to fix them. Moreover, there are have been so-called "existential threats" to bitcoin in the past that has resulted in some pretty drastic updates---but all of them have led to a more resilient, robust network. Such is the beauty of open source, and especially bitcoin. I'd argue that the technology itself is "Anti-Fragile," which is an awesome term coined by favorite modern philosopher Naseem Taleb---but that's another rabbit hole that we can dive into some other time.

Anyway, in the pantheon of challenges to adoption, I'm least concerned about the technology. The others are a bit more difficult.

###Economic challenges
Here's a fun game you can play with an economist: tell them bitcoin is not a commodity or a currency---instead, say it's a bit of both, and something more. This will likely upset them. Based on how upset they become, guess their school of economics. Once you play a few times, the answer becomes pretty predictable...but I'll leave that as an exercise to the listener.

Look, a lot of modern economics and bitcoin simply don't agree. Any economist will tell you that scarce units of account are not as good as a flexible money supply, but I have a sneaking suspicion they say this to keep themselves employed in cushy jobs at central banks.

Okay, okay, I'll stop making fun of economics, because as I mentioned before, it has done a lot of good. And I'll admit, the idea of a volatile, deflationary "currency" is not ideal, and not what most economists believe constitutes an ideal vehicle for society's transactions.

But the end-game with cryptocurrency is not what it looks like today. The hope is that the volatility will go down, and the deflation will eventually reach similar levels to Fed-targeted inflation: ~2% or less. We haven't really lived in a world with bitcoin's particular brand of deflation---where so much more information is known about the units of account, and an entire ledger available for purview and analysis by anyone who wants to download it. This is in stark contrast to gold-run economies of the past, where one never knew when a new mine might have been discovered, or how much gold was in circulation, etc. So I'm hopeful here too, although lots of economists might not be.

###Regulatory challenges 
Simply put, bitcoin is the wild west of money. This bothers people who have spent years taming our financial system---and doing so for the benefit of consumers, at least in intent, if not outcome. They want to regulate bitcoin, and from their perspective, rightfully so.

The Silk Road and Mt. Gox's collapse are two of a myriad of examples of bitcoin businesses (or shadow economies) failing prominently. Governments want to protect their citizens from these sorts of events. And so, they seek proper regulation.

Now, unlike many of cryptoanarchist friends, I personally believe there is a place for smart government regulation for consumers. But the government record on bitcoin is mixed, at best. Whether its malicious or simply out of ignorance of the technology is unclear. Most recently, the New York State Department of Finance just released its proposed regulations for bitcoin businesses, and simply put, they're exactly the kinds of ideas that turn normal people into staunch cryptoanarchists. The whole thing would take too long to go into, but here's my favorite Kafka-esque absurdity: if the new regulations had existed before bitcoin existed, one would have needed a license to create bitcoin. That's the kind of mentality that discourages bottom-up tinkering, and it pervades the proposed regulation.

The regulatory environment is even more fickle in other countries. China and Russia have both at times banned and unbanned bitcoin. It's not hard to imagine an authoritarian regime making cryptocurrency illegal if they view it as a threat.

Honestly, this is the challenge that frightens me the most. Do I think bitcoin would still exist without regulatory blessing? Absolutely---it's already proven its worth in gray-market scenarios, much like bittorrent has, another p2p technology you might be familiar with. Pandora's bitcoin-box is open, and there's no way to stuff this mixed-metaphor genie back into the bottle.

But without light---and smart---regulation, bitcoin will only become a shade of what it could be come. And that will be to the detriment of all, especially the developing world, which needs it a lot more than the rest of us.

###Cultural challenges
I just spent the better part of an hour explaining bitcoin to you guys, an educated, motivated, intelligent young crowd. Now as awesome as I think I am at this, I don't doubt that many of you still aren't on board, or don't fully grok it.

Now imagine that I'm trying to convince a bunch of rural subsistence farmers, barely exposed to smartphones, to store their money in bitcoin. Educating people on bitcoin is a HUGE challenge. It took me nearly a year to think of it as more than just cyberpunk drugmoney, and I have a degree in math. But once I fully grokked it, to quote Swingers, "it was so money baby, and I didn't even know it."

This is not an insurmountable challenge, but it's incumbent on bitcoin service providers and users to turn the esoteric into the approachable. Microsoft did it with the Operating System, Apple did it with mp3 players and smartphones, Google did it with search. It's not impossible. But it ain't gonna be easy.

## Q & A

And that's all I got! Thank you all again for letting me wax poetic on bitcoin---I truly hope I opened some of your eyes to the amazing opportunity presented by cryptocurrency, but failing that, I hope at least it gave you something to ponder. 

So on those notes of cautious optimism, I'd love to open the floor to questions. 
